The devil is in the details.

A manifesto is of necessity a collection of mostly context free
glittering generalities designed to convince through demagoguery
rather than authority, fact, truth or reference.

This is _good_. We are all motivated by belief, emotion and the
things that inspire, whether we choose to admit it not.

However, it would be nice if when manifesting a manifesto, one 
could lend some context and credibility to the ravings of the 
inspired mind.

Thus manifestopheles.

The idea is that everything an individual writes is embedded in
their own sense of what the words they use connote.
manifestopheles provides a wiki-like way of attached a manifesto
to the details: a personal dictionary of words and phrases auto-
linked from the manifesto. Many manifestos, one dictionary.

-=-=-

This idea is based on my previous thing, called warp, which would
auto link words and phrases in documents attached to and within
a dictionary, creating a web of unintentional but perhaps meanginful
connections. 

manifestopheles reimplements warp on a TiddlyWeb architecture,
taking advantage of bags and the recipe cascade to attach different
manifestos to a single dictionary, or even different dictionaries
(what does manfiesto on dictionary A _mean_ compared to the same
manifesto on dictionary B?).

-=-=-

The basic idea is that a manifesto is a tiddler A in bag B which is
part of recipe C. Recipe C also includes bag D which is the dictionary.
When tiddler A is displayed any phrases or words (phrases checked first)
which are tiddler titles from bag D are displayed as links to the
tiddler. When that tiddler is displayed, it to is parsed for
phrases and words, creating links.

All this is embedded in a navigation and editing/annotating UI. For
anybody there's:

* What amounts to a recent changes.
* A way (to be determined) to comment/annotate.

For the author/admin:

* Any tiddler can be edited and saved back to its original home.
* When text in any tiddler is selected, a button can be pushed
  which creates a new tiddler with a title of the selected text
  (normalized) and displays an editing interface.

In a deluxe version there would be a way to layer on functionality
by adding in additional bags. For example, other people's dictionaries,
turning annotations on and off, that sort of thing.

Chris Dent, 2010
